Gaza has been under a land sea and air
blockade for 16 years which includes
control of its
resources and in this besieged Coastal
Enclave water is running out fast Israel
has long sold GS of fresh water
transported through numerous pipelines
but turned off the Taps after Hamas
launched its attack on October the
7th the UN says Water Production from
Municipal groundwater sources and Gaza
is less than 5% of what it was before
the war Philipe lazarini head of the UN
Agency for Palestinians has warned Gaza
is running out of water and Gaza is
running out of
life access to drinking water has long
been a challenge for the people of
Gaza before the war officials in the
region were unable to provide enough
water for everyone The Enclave relies on
the lower section of a shallow Coastal
aqua for its groundwater and because of
over pumping much of the water has been
polluted there were three major
desalination plants that provided 7% of
the water supply they're now out of
service the Palestine Water Authority
said in 2017 there were 286 desalination
plants 79% are unlicensed a report from
the human rights organization bat salum
says 96% of gaza's household water is
undrinkable
but it's not just turning off the tap
Israel has also blocked fuel which is
desperately needed to restart pumping
and treatment
plants and now water Trucking operations
have come to a halt because of lack of
fuel and Roads blocked with debris and
while bottled water is largely
unavailable small desalination plants
have become the main suppliers of clean
drinking water un staff in Gaza are now
rationing water to 1 liter a day for
each person which does not meet the 2 to
4 liters a day recommended by scientists
just for
hydration and this is the result people
desperately relying on unsafe tap water
from the only aquifer which is
contaminated with sewage and
seawater Laura Khan Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer and